- [Instructor] In Spring the ModeL-View-Controller Pattern
is one of the first patterns
that most developers actually interact with
when they're using the framework.
In fact my first course here on Linkedin Learning
had some very strong use cases of the Model-View-Controller.
So throughout the Spring framework
you will see that the Model-View-Controller Pattern
is the de facto core standard,
for how all of Spring web works.
It's used not only for traditional web pages,
but also for RESTful web service calls.
Now how does this pattern work in a nutshell?
So responsibilities are broken
into three distinct components.
The first is the model, which delivers data to the view.
The second is the view,
which delivers the experience to the consumer.
And finally, the controller populates the model,
selects the view, and merges them together,
or delegates that to some other operation as in Spring MVC,
where the template engine actually does that merging.
So why would we actually want to use
the Model-View-Controller Pattern?
First and foremost it improves developer efficiencies
by separating responsibilities.
This may not exist in your organization,
but all too often front-end developers
are very different from back-end developers.
I, myself cannot consider myself a front-end developer.
My job description HTML skills
are no where on par with some of my peers.
But I'm really, really good on the back-end side.
So as such, being able to separate these responsibilities
makes a lot of sense for us.
We can also have dynamic and multiple view selection
with the same controller and model.
So what does this mean?
The same controller and model can actually be used
to serve different views, whether your on mobile or web,
whether you want XML or JSON, or protocol buffers.
All of this can change the view, but we still do so
with the same model and the same controller
by using the MVC Pattern.
Also, views can be modified
without modification to the business logic.
And all to often we see that our views change
way more than the underlying code does.
And as such, having these separated out,
we don't have to modify the controller or modify the model,
when the view itself needs to change.
And also, having a model that returns raw data,
that is unformatted,
gives us the ability to use it in future consumption needs.
So how do we go about doing this?
And I'm going to specifically talk about this
from the perspective of Spring.
First and foremost you need to engage a template engine
if you are going to use it.
If you're using Spring Boot,
turning on a template engine is usually as simple
as bringing the starter onto the class path.
You then need to create your view.
Usually it's easier to create your view on a side channel,
but your view has to be there in order to do your operation.
Now if your doing MVC web services,
your views are already done for you,
and we'll get to that when we go through our example
of how to implement this.
You're then going to create your model.
And this is all the data that your view needs,
that you then need to go fetch from the underlying code.
So this model is really your transport
that your going to build in your controller,
which is the next step.
You need to create the controller method,
in order to populate the model
and make all of the underlying call that are necessary,
and then return it.
And in the web side,
your actually going to return the view name
and you'll update the model,
which is a live parameter sent into your method.
In the web service world, you simply return your model
as a return on the method itself,
and the framework will turn it into a view
using either JSON or XML or protocol buffers.
And that's how were going to go about doing this
in our next video.